Docs: Grafana Enterprise auditing feature (#28356)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/auditing.md

+++
title = "Auditing"
description = "Auditing"
keywords = ["grafana", "auditing", "audit", "logs"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 700
+++

# Auditing

> > Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.3+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.3+.
```

> Auditing allows you to track important changes to your Grafana instance. Modifications to resources such as dashboards and data sources or a user failing to login will all result in an audit log being created. Learn more about what is being audited below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auditing allows you to track important changes to your Grafana instance. Audit logs track things like:
- Modifications to resources such as dashboards and data sources.
- A user failing to log in.
```

By default, audit logs are logged to file but the auditing feature also supports sending logs directly to Loki.

> ## Audit logs

Reviewer: Please add a brief intro to avoid stacked headings. You could just move the sentence from line 16 down to here.

### Format

> Audit logs are JSON objects containing the following fields. The fields followed by **\*** are always available, the others depends on the request made.

Reviewer: Request made where? What request?

Reviewer 2: Perhaps say `...depends on what part of the Grafana API is being used.`

> - **timestamp\* -** _string -_ The date and time the request was made, in coordinated universal time (UTC) using the [RFC3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6) format.

Reviewer: Please write these as a table. Something like:

| Field name | Info type | Description |

  - **body -** _string -_ Response body.
- **resources -** _array -_ Information about the resources that the request action impacted. Can be null for non-resource actions like `login` and `logout`.
  - **id\* -** _number -_ ID of the resource.
  - **type\* -** _string -_ Type of the resource (logged resources are: `alert`, `alert-notification`, `annotation`, `api-key`, `auth-token`, `dashboard`, `datasource`, `folder`, `org`, `panel`, `playlist`, `report`, `team`, `user`, `version`).
- **requestUri\* -** _string -_ Request URI.
- **ipAddress\* -** _string -_ IP address that the request was made from.
- **userAgent\* -** _string -_ Agent through which the request was made.
- **grafanaVersion\* -** _string -_ Grafana current version when this log is created.
- **additionalData -** _object -_ Provide additional information on the request. For now, it's only used in `login` actions to log external user information if an external system was used to log in.

### Recorded actions

The audit logs include records about the following categories of actions:

**Sessions**

- Login
- Logout
- Revoke a user authentication token
- Create or delete an API key

**User management**

> - Create, update or delete a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a user
```

Reviewer: Add periods to the end of all sentences.

- Enable or disable a user
- Manage user role and permissions
- LDAP sync or information access

**Team and organization management**

> - Create, update or delete a team / organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a team or organization
```

> - Add or remove a member to a team / organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add or remove a member of a team or organization
```

> - Manage team / organization members roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manage team or organization member roles
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this makes sense. Team members do not have roles. Only the organization does.

Reviewer 2: Team members have roles if the `editors_can_admin` [feature](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/organization_roles/#editor-role) is enabled (they can manage the team).

Reviewer: They are still editors, though. And managing the team != specific team member roles, unless I am totally missing something.

Reviewer 2: As a user that is an editor but have the role team admin on a team I can make other team members into team admins.

Author: What I mean by that is making a team Member an Admin of a team (or a Member if he was Admin before). This is an action logged by the auditing feature. Maybe "Manage team or organization member permissions" would be more accurate? Or should I split it into 2 sentences to talk about "organization role" and "team permission"?

Reviewer: I think splitting that bullet into two would help.

- Invite an external member to an organization
- Revoke a pending invitation to an organization
- Add or remove an external group to sync with a team

**Folder and dashboard management**

> - Create, update or delete a folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a folder
```

Reviewer: Always use the serial comma. Always.

- Manage folder permissions

> - Create, import, update or delete a dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, import, update, or delete a dashboard
```

- Restore an old dashboard version
- Manage dashboard permissions

**Data sources management**

> - Create, update or delete a data source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a data source
```

- Manage data source permissions

**Alerts and notification channels management**

> - Create, update or delete a notification channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a notification channel
```

- Test an alert or a notification channel
- Pause an alert

**Reporting**

> - Create, update or delete a report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a report
```

- Update reporting settings
- Send reporting email

**Annotations, playlists and snapshots management**

> - Create, update or delete an annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete an annotation
```

> - Create, update or delete a playlist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create, update, or delete a playlist
```

- Create or delete a snapshot

## Configuration

> > The auditing feature is disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The auditing feature is disabled by default.
```

Audit logs can be saved into files, sent to a Loki instance or sent to the Grafana default logger. By default, only the file exporter is enabled.

> You can choose which exporter to use in the [configuration file](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration).

Reviewer: Please make this link a relref.

> Options are `file`, `loki` and `console`. Use spaces to separate multiple modes, e.g. `file loki`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Options are `file`, `loki`, and `console`. Use spaces to separate multiple modes, such as `file loki`.
```

> By default, when a user create or update a dashboard, its content will not appear in the logs as it can significantly increase the size of your logs. If this is important information for you and you can handle the amount of data generated, you can enable this option in the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when a user create or update a dashboard, its content will not appear in the logs as it can significantly increase the size of your logs. If this is important information for you and you can handle the amount of data generated, then you can enable this option in the configuration.
```

```ini
[auditing]
# Enable the auditing feature
enabled = false
# List of enabled loggers
loggers = file
# Keep dashboard content in the logs (request or response fields); this can significantly increase the size of your logs.
log_dashboard_content = false
```

Each exporter has its own configuration fields.

### File exporter

Audit logs are saved into files. You can configure the folder to use to save these files. Logs are rotated when the file size is exceeded and at the start of a new day.

```ini
[auditing.logs.file]
# Path to logs folder
path = data/log
# Maximum log files to keep
max_files = 5
# Max size in megabytes per log file
max_file_size_mb = 256
```

### Loki exporter

> Audit logs are sent to a [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/) service.

Reviewer: Again, please make this a relref if possible. @cyriltovena, what is the best place to link this?

```ini
[auditing.logs.loki]

> # Set the url for writing logs to Loki

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Set the URL for writing logs to Loki
```

Reviewer: Please change this in the .ini files as well.

Reviewer: Any reason that TLS and URL are not capitalized in the fields?

Author: It follows the convention used for the Grafana configuration file.

Reviewer: Most of which was written before I got here. We're updating it where we can, but the current convention in documentation is to update URL in all cases except for where it would mess up the code. If you can change it for the comments, that would be great. If not, then it is not a huge deal.

Author: Sure, I updated the comment and will update the .ini files in an Enterprise PR. My answer was for your question on the fields: the convention is to not use capitalized letters in the configuration fields.

url = localhost:9095
# Defaults to true. If true, it establishes a secure connection to Loki
tls = true
```

If you have multiple Grafana instances sending logs to the same Loki service or if you are using Loki for non-audit logs, audit logs come with additional labels to help identifying them:

- **host** - OS hostname on which the Grafana instance is running.
- **grafana_instance** - Application URL.
- **kind** - `auditing`

### Console exporter

> Audit logs are sent to the Grafana default logger. The audit logs will use the `auditing.console` logger and be logged on `debug`-level, learn how to enable debug logging in the [log configuration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#log) section of the documentation. Accessing the audit logs in this way is not recommended for production use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Audit logs are sent to the Grafana default logger. The audit logs use the `auditing.console` logger and are logged on `debug`-level, learn how to enable debug logging in the [log configuration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#log) section of the documentation. Accessing the audit logs in this way is not recommended for production use.
```

| `action`\* | string | The request action (eg. `create`, `update`, `manage-permissions`). |
| `request`\* | object | Information about the HTTP request. |
| `request.params` | object | Request path parameters. |
| `request.query` | object | Request query parameters. |
| `request.body` | string | Request body. |
| `result`\* | object | Information about the HTTP response. |
| `result.statusType`\* | string | `success` if the request action was successful, `failure` otherwise. |
| `result.statusCode` | number | HTTP status of the request. |
| `result.failureMessage` | string | HTTP error message. |
| `result.body` | string | Response body. |
| `resources` | array | Information about the resources that the request action impacted. Can be null for non-resource actions like `login` and `logout`. |
| `resources[x].id`\* | number | ID of the resource. |
| `resources[x].type`\* | string | Type of the resource (logged resources are: `alert`, `alert-notification`, `annotation`, `api-key`, `auth-token`, `dashboard`, `datasource`, `folder`, `org`, `panel`, `playlist`, `report`, `team`, `user`, `version`). |

> | `requestUri`\* | string | Request URI. |

Reviewer: Any reason this can't be requestURI?

| `ipAddress`\* | string | IP address that the request was made from. |
| `userAgent`\* | string | Agent through which the request was made. |
| `grafanaVersion`\* | string | Grafana current version when this log is created. |
| `additionalData` | object | Provide additional information on the request. For now, it's only used in `login` actions to log external user information if an external system was used to log in. |

### Recorded actions

The audit logs include records about the following categories of actions:

**Sessions**

> - Login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Log in.
```

> - Logout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Log out.
```
